Hello, everyone.
Did you chose Path Beag or this more advanced way of deploying a WordPress Web site?
It's because you are already familiar with the basics of the get version control system.
And if you'd like Gitte and you've made it a central part of your workflow, this means that at the
end of every day, or maybe even several times a day, you are committing your progress into your local
get repository and then pushing that up to a service like Get Hub or BitBucket.
So if that's already a habit of yours and it's something that you're doing on a regular basis, it would
be silly to not take advantage of that.
So why don't we set things up so that your repository is your single source of truth, meaning instead
of having to manually upload files to your Web host to power your live Web site.
Instead, let's set up your GITTE hub or BitBucket repository to automatically upload your most recent
files and changes up to the Web host for you.
Or in other words, anytime you update the master branch on your get hub or BitBucket repository, you
will also effortlessly be updating your live Web site.
OK.
And that's exactly what we are going to set up in this lesson.
Without further ado, let's get started.
OK, so the first step, if you have not already, you need to create a repository for the folder or
directory that is powering our local dev environment, WordPress.
And just to be clear, I do not mean our theme folder.
I mean the overall WordPress folder.
Let me show you what I mean.
So within the local app, you can right click on your project, choose, reveal in Finder, dig into
that folder, dig into app and then go into public.
So this is the folder you would want to turn into a repository.
You'll know you're in the right directory if you see folders like WP Content, WP admen and WP includes.
So usually what I like to do if I go back up a folder.
This is the folder that I would want to create a get repository out of.
So if I open up this folder in my V.S. code text editor.
Right.
So now on the left hand side bar, V.S. Code, I see folders like WP Admen, WP Content, WP includes.
I would just want to turn this entire folder into a get rebo.
So if I open up the command line in VSS code, you can just type get in.
Now you don't need to use the command line if you usually use the get hub graphical user interface app.
That's totally fine.
Just do whatever you normally do to create a new get repo, OK?
But just a quick note.
I do recommend having a get ignore file that ignores the node modules folder.
Remember in our theme folder we have the node modules folder and as long as our theme folder has the
package dot Jason file, which is like a recipe.
Well, we're always just one npm install command away from fetching all of those node modules from the
Internet again.
So there's no point in backing those up or including those in version control.
So what I like to do in the root of this new get rebo folder is just create a new file and give it the
exact name of DOT Gimmicked Ignore.
And then in that new file, I just say node underscore modules and then you can end with a forward slash.
Go ahead and save that.
OK.
With that in place now you'll see if I go into WP content and then themes and then our fictional university
theme noticed that the node modules folder is grayed out.
So it is not going to bother backing up those potentially hundreds of megabytes of files that we don't
need to backup.
Also, while we're in this get ignore file, we might as well also ignore the rather large files that
the all in one migration plug in from a couple of lessons ago.
We would want to ignore the huge files that it generates.
So on a new line, I would just say a I one w and dash backups forward slash.
Let's give that a save.
Cool.
So now within the WP content folder, we see that all in one migration backups folder is great out and
no longer being backed up by get.
OK.
Now that we've done that, you would just commit all of your new files and changes into get.
And then just push it up to a remote.
Get hosting service.
I'm not going to walk through the process of pushing a get repo up to a remote because if you're using
path B, you're supposed to be familiar with the basics of get.
Having said that, you will want to be using either get hub.
Or BitBucket, both of these services are excellent and they both offer free private repose.
So when you set up your rebo on either get Hubb or BitBucket, make sure that it's private.
We absolutely want a private rebo, not a public rebo, because remember, our WP config file contains
our database username and password.
So we would absolutely never want that file to be publicly viewable.
So I can't stress that enough.
Make sure your repo is private, but then go ahead and push your repo up to your service, which is
either GitHub or BitBucket.
OK, once you've done that and your repo now lives in your GitHub or BitBucket account, that means
we're ready to move on to the next step, which is to set things up so that anytime you update your
get Hobb or BitBucket repo, your updated files will get automatically uploaded to your Web hosting
account for you.
Now, in order to set this up, we are going to want to use a third party deployment service.
And there are tons of these different services out there to choose from.
Let me show you just a few.
So first, there is deploy HQ.
This is actually what I'm going to use in this course as a demo because they have a nice free plan.
Even in addition to the free trial, there's a permanent free option where you can have one project
and make 10 deployments per day all for free.
OK, there's another deployment service named Deploy Bot.
We use this service at my last job for all of our projects.
I have nothing but good things to say about deploy bought, but we are not going to use it in this course
because they do not offer a free account.
And I don't want you to have to spend any extra money right now when you're learning.
OK, and then an example of another service is F.T. Ploy.
F.T. Ploy is a bit barebones.
It doesn't have as many features as the other services, but it does offer a nice free plan.
The free account gives you one project and you can make unlimited deployments per day.
Now, there's way more than just these three services out there.
But this gives you a good idea that there's a lot to choose from out there and you're free to make your
own decision.
But just for the sake of following along with me in this course, I encourage you to give deploy HQ
a try.
So right now, go ahead and pause this video and sign up for a completely free deploy HQ account.
And just for the record, I am not in any way affiliated or partnered with Deploy HQ.
I'm just a fan of their service and they conveniently offer a free account to learn with.
Anyways, go ahead and pause this video and then resume it once you've signed up for a Deploy HQ account.